1. who developed python programming language ?

ANS = Guido van Rossum

2. which type of programming does python support?

ANS = python support such as data structure design and object-oriented programming,
and encourages programmers to write readable (and thus maintainable) code by providing an elegant

3.is python case sensitive  when dealing with identifiers ?

ANS = yes  python is  case sensitive  when dealing with identifiers

4.what is the correct extension of the python file ?

ANS = .py
5. is python code compiled or interpreted ?

ANS =  python language is interpreted. 
       But that is half correct the python program is first compiled and then interpreted.

6. name a five block of code using to define in python language  ?

ANS = 1 If-else statement: used to perform different actions based on different conditions.
       code 
    if condition:
   # do something
else:
   # do something else
    
    2 For loop: used to iterate over a sequence (such as a list, tuple, or string) and execute a block of code for each item in the sequence.
       code 
       for item in sequence:
   # do something with item
   
   3 While loop: used to repeatedly execute a block of code while a certain condition is true.
   code 
   while condition:
   # do something
   4 Function definition: used to define a reusable block of code that can be called from multiple places in your program.
    code
    def function_name(arguments):
   # do something
   return result
  5 Class definition: used to define a blueprint for creating objects (i.e., instances of a class).
   code
   class ClassName:
   # class attributes and methods

       
       
7. state a character  used  to give single- line comments  in python ?

ANS =  # print the value We can also use the single-line comment along with the code.

8. mention  function  which can help us to find the version of python that we can currently working on?

ANS =  Sys.version

9. python support the creation of anonymous function at runtime  using a construct called ?

ANS = Lambda
10. what does pip stand for python ?

ANS = Python pip uninstall command uninstalls a particular existing package.

11. mention  a few built-in function in python ?
ANS =   1 abs()
        2 any()
        3 bin()
        4 bool()
        5 byte()
12. what is the maximum possible length of an identifier in python ?

ANS =   When writing code using an identifier in Python we can only use a maximum of 79 characters

13. what are the benefits of using python ?
ANS =  1 Presence of Libraries
       2 Open Source and free
       3 Huge Support Community
       4 Easy to learn
       5 User-Friendly data structures
       6 Speed 
       7 Third-Party Modules
       
14. what is memory managed in python  ?
ANS = Memory management in Python refers to the process of managing the amount of memory used by the program during its execution. 
In Python, memory management is done automatically using a garbage collector that collects and frees up memory that is no longer being used by the program.
The memory management system in Python is responsible for allocating memory for new objects, reclaiming memory that is no longer being used
and organizing memory to optimize memory usage and performance.

15. how to install python on windows and set path  variable  ?

ANS =  1 Download the latest version of Python from the official website (https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/).
       2 Run the installer and follow the instructions to complete the installation process.
       3 To set the path variable, follow these steps:
       a. Open the Start menu, search for "Environment Variables" and click on "Edit the system environment variables".
       b. Click on the "Environment Variables" button.
       c. Scroll down to the "System Variables" section, find the "Path" variable and click on "Edit".
       d. Click on "New" and add the location of your Python installation, for example: "C:\Python36".
      e. Click "OK" to close all the windows.
      After setting the path variable, you can open the command prompt and run Python by typing "python".

16. is indentation required in python  ?
ANS =  Yes, indentation is required in Python. It is used to define blocks of code, 
       such as functions, loops, and conditional statements. In Python


